                           Description    

The programs of the UniW32 and UniW64 unit are subject to the LGPL version 3 license.

The programs UniW32Test.exe and UniW64Test.exe are compiled console test programs
for windows.

These two units contain the program routines, which are required for the conversion
from one Unicode encoding form to another Unicode encoding form.
The unit UniW32 is required for 32 bit systems and the unit UniW64 for 64 bit systems.
 
For a fast recoding the routines are written in the inline assembler for the Freepascal
32/64 bit compiler from version 2.6.4 and above. A small part is written in
Pascal. The routines can also be used in Delphi 32/64 bit. But I didn't test this,
because I don't have a Delphi compiler.

Some routines have an additional parameter In- or OutByteOrder. 
This parameter defines the byte order of the encoding in the text.(UTF32,UTF16)
  tyLE = byte order (Intel) 
  tyBE = byte order MIPS...
The consideration of the byte order in the text I have implemented with to the
data exchange between different operating systems.
Note that a UTF16BE or UTF32BE encoded text can not be processed in the FPC compiler
because it works with UTF16LE and UTF32LE. 
By default the parameter In- or OutbyteOrder is set to tyLE if you do not enter
anything.
  
All routines work WITHOUT byte order mark (BOM). An existing BOM in the input
texts is ignored, but counted in routine fnUTF8Length.  
If you need a BOM, then you must insert this at the text beginning with the
system routine Insert. A UTF8text should not get a BOM according to Unicode.
The routines set the Unicode character U+FFDF in case of encoding errors in the
input text in the the result text. 
Unfortunately the FPC team, from my point of view, unfavorable designations. 
e.g. Unicodestring can be a UTF32,UTF16 or UTF8 encoded text. Furthermore the
UTF32 encoding is created as a dynamic field, and not as text as with UTF8 or UTF16. 
This has the consequence that no Copy ana Write takes place.
Here one notices that the Delphi compatibility is not always favorable.

The unit has implemented the following routines:
    - fnUTF8Length 
      Determines the NUMBER of characters present in the text. (Not the bytes!)
    - fnUTF8ToUTF16
      Changes the encoding present as UTF8 into a UTF16 encoding.
      The parameter InByteOrder allows, different from the system routines,
      to specify the byte order in the UTF16 encoding.
    - fnUTF8ToUTF32
      Changes the encoding from UTF8 to UTF32. Byte order in UTF32 is tyLE.
    - fnUTF16ToUTF8
      Encodes from UTF16 (tyLE,tyBE) to UTF8.
    - fnUTF16ToUTF32
      Changes the encoding from UTF16 to UTF32. Byte order in UTF32 is tyLE
    - fnUTF32ToUTF8
      Changes the encoding from UTF32 to UTF8.
    - fnUTF32ToUTF16
      Changes the encoding from UTF32 to UTF16. 
      Byte order in UTF16 is tyLE or tyBE.   
      
For the possibility of separate tests of the units you can use the console program
UNIW32Test.exe or UNIW64Test.exe. These offer also a runtime test for the system
routines. Here you can see the considerable gain in speed by the implementation
in assembler. This is especially noticeable with the compiler of version 264.

Notes:
  Because the routines are written in assembler, they can also be used with other
  high level languages (C, C++ etc.). For this only the function headers are need
  to change and remove the IFDEF.
  So that incorrect codings in the input text can be correctly processed,
  (set error marker in the result text) it is necessary in the input text the
  number of letters or characters to count. The UTF8 encoding can vary from 1
  to 4 bytes. The byte length of the text is of no use here. 
  Therefore with many recodings a determination of the necessary number of 
  characters in the result text to determine the required storage space for the
  result text. (This is also the reason why the system routines use the question
  mark put instead of the error mark, although this violates the Unicode standard.
  The error mark has 3 bytes in UTF8, 2 bytes in UTF16 and 4 bytes in UTF32. 
  The question mark, however, is a valid Unicode character and should not be
  misused as error mark.

 Klaus Stöhr  
 
